---
publish_date: '2016-04-09'
title: Feel Good
---

I’m now back to 75kg and just finished my climbing project, a 5.10a route,
earlier in the gym today. Yes, I’m sore all over but this is the best I’ve
felt about myself in years. So I felt like chronicling my struggle to live
healthy.

I was fairly active back in grade school. I’d go out and play everyday. I
biked around and took hikes to the nearby river. But then video games came to
my life. And eventually the internet. I ruined my eyesight and stopped going
out of the house. It got a bit better in college with all the walking in UP
Diliman but I still wasn’t exercising or into any sport. I did try sports
climbing for PE on the summer of my first year. That firmly confirmed how out
of shape I was.

Fast forward to my first job when I can now earn money to feed myself. So feed
I did! And boy did I get heavy quickly. I was never thin but I started
morphing into a ball after I started paying my own bills. After a few months,
my contract ended and I got my next job at [Insync](https://www.insynchq.com).
I still spent majority of my waking life sitting in front of a computer screen
over the first couple of years at Insync but that slowly changed.

[![71691_165866206773713_2983423_n.jpg](https://svbtleusercontent.com/rpsqgvlo
cfo0a_small.jpg)](https://svbtleusercontent.com/rpsqgvlocfo0a.jpg) _I think I
peaked at 90kg_

Our CEO, Terence, started getting active and working out. And that influenced
me little by little. He made me realize how important health is. It’s not
about prolonging your life. You can live through the average lifetime without
living healthy. You just have to be lucky. But being alive and being healthy
are different. You get to enjoy life more when you’re healthy. At least for my
definition of what “enjoying life” is.

At first I tried to do push-ups and barbell curls every morning in my room.
Then Terence brought in some gym equipments in the office and we tried
lifting. We got tired of it so I tried jogging and it stuck for a while. We
moved to a new house office inside a subdivision with hilly roads which was a
nice place to train.

[![1009574_549945258401415_578083056_o.jpg](https://svbtleusercontent.com/dowm
lljizx96jg_small.jpg)](https://svbtleusercontent.com/dowmlljizx96jg.jpg) _Last
stretch of a 10km run_

But the guys eventually lost interest and soon after, me. I tried other
exercises like the [7-minute workout](http://well.blogs.nytimes.com/2013/05/09
/the-scientific-7-minute-workout/) but that too didn’t _work out_. Then a new
hire came, Beato, who was into lifting. So we tried it again. First, using
resistance bands before we hauled the old gym equipment to the new office. We
started logging PRs and followed a program. We got so into it that we were
working out most days of the week. This was when I finally saw “progress” in
my body. More than losing weight, I also felt a lot stronger and it got me
motivated more than ever.

[![VID_20141128_185110.gif](https://svbtleusercontent.com/zj2neiovftz3g_small.
gif)](https://svbtleusercontent.com/zj2neiovftz3g.gif) _Our mini gym_

But lifting only continued for several months until we had to move to a new
house. Unlike the previous house, the new place barely had space for the gym
equipments. We were still able to work out but it wasn’t as easy as before. I
knew it was over when our olympic bar started rusting. And then one fateful
Saturday, Beato asked me for something we could do for the weekend. I thought
of Power Up in Tandang Sora, the sports climbing gym I had my summer PE in,
because it was the nearest I could think of that we haven’t tried yet.

[![11203522_10205740095236314_3475699316965318990_o.jpg](https://svbtleusercon
tent.com/xvzgtvscyxavzq_small.jpg)](https://svbtleusercontent.com/xvzgtvscyxav
zq.jpg) _First time to finish Finals wall_

It’s been a year since and we still climb. It’s even become a passion for some
of us. We finally found a sport that we really enjoy. It might change again or
we might climb until our bodies allow us. It doesn’t matter. I’m now back to
75kg and just finished my climbing project, a 5.10a route, earlier in the gym
today. Yes, I’m sore all over but this is the best I’ve felt about myself in
years.

[![12717183_10154063370137189_2196934817010237227_n.jpg](https://svbtleusercon
tent.com/7k8zgdu7v1lgg_small.jpg)](https://svbtleusercontent.com/7k8zgdu7v1lgg
.jpg) _Attendance_