---
publish_date: '2014-02-17'
title: Marketing beats quality
---

One of my biggest motivations on getting into programming was learning how to
create games. Unfortunately, I’ve been a web developer for more than a handful
of years now but I’ve yet to finish creating my first game. That was the case
_before_ a couple of weeks ago. After playing Flappy Bird for the first time,
I immediately realized that its mechanics were really simple.

_“I can do that!”_

I’ve been casually reading game development news and topics ever since so I
was at least familiar with the available libraries. After deciding on taking a
stab at writing a Flappy Bird clone, I downloaded [Phaser](http://phaser.io/)
and got started. I worked on it during my free time for about 3 days.

First I made the bird fly. Then I made the fingers appear. (I used fingers
instead of pipes because I named my game “Don’t touch my birdie”. Ain’t I
witty?) Halfway through, I got stuck on dealing with collisions because of a
bug in how bounding boxes were positioned when sprites are flipped using a
negative scale. After managing to fix that, I drew my own shitty pixel art,
tuned physics to my liking, added clouds and a background, used
[bfxr](http://www.bfxr.net/) to create sound effects, threw in a [CC
Attribution-NonCommercial license](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-
nc/4.0/) and pushed it up to [GitHub](https://github.com/marksteve/dtmb).

It was my first complete game. It’s a clone, yes, but I created it from
scratch. My friends liked it. I liked it. So being proud of myself, I tried
posting it in Hacker News. The day passed by and I got 0 points. Maybe it was
timing. I really suck at that. But I just sighed and continued on with my
life.

The next day, I saw this: <https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=7199334>

_“You mothereffin thief!”_

It sucked. I was really pissed. He even claimed that he created and open
sourced the thing. After a few comments in Hacker News from some of my
friends, he decided to add “some attribution” to my work on his readme. But I
guess most people don’t like reading because some days and weeks later, a few
forks popped out giving credits to that uralozden jerk:

  * <http://flappycircle.com/>
  * <http://fibreapps.com/clumsybird/>
  * <http://www.sesamestreet.org/cms-static/flappy_bert/>
  * <http://leereilly.net/flappy-holman/>

Marketing beats quality. My hobo looking bird didn’t stand a chance with his
straight rip assets from Flappy Bird. At least I got some sympathy and advice
from Phaser’s author:

> [@themarksteve](https://twitter.com/themarksteve) I can see why you’d be a
bit pissed, but honestly turn it to your advantage. Claim back credit :)

>

> — Richard Davey (@photonstorm) [February 14,
2014](https://twitter.com/photonstorm/statuses/434171919399944193)

So I end my rant here. It’s upsetting but that’s life. I didn’t really
understand how indie game developers felt when they find clones of their games
that make more money than them until now.