---
publish_date: 2014-1-12
title: Who cares?
---

I care too much about how others think about me. I hate it. I know I’ve missed
lots of would-have-been-awesome experiences, could-have-been friends and, most
importantly, chances to express myself. But I analyze. I always stop to think
about what I’m going to say. I edit the thoughts in my head. They get
filtered. Filtered until there are no more words to say. Then I miss the
chance. And this always happens.

But not when I’m with close friends. I say shit. I say stupid things. I say
awesome things. I don’t edit. I don’t filter. Why is that? Oh… Just now, I
realized what’s wrong with me. I’m a fucking coward. I fear failure.

I’ve tried blogging lots of times. They all end up being deleted after a few
entries. Because I suck at writing. But who cares? I do. I’ve met lots of
interesting people throughout my life. Of course most of us have. But I rarely
make friends with them. Because I don’t think I’m interesting. But who cares?
I fucking do. I don’t tweet that much. It takes me a long ass time to write
one and then I delete it because I think it’s not worth reading. But who
cares? Yep, me. I met this girl… Nah. I’m not telling that story! But I can go
on and on about the times I’ve stopped myself from doing something because I
thought I was going to fail or won’t be good enough. I’m such a pussy.

Even right about now I’m contemplating if I should publish this. That’s how
much of a coward I am. But that’s going to change starting today. I’m going to
publish this and keep this “Who cares?” mantra. I am a new man! Rawr! You hear
that internet? That’s a scaredy cat roaring like a lion!

“If not now, when?”

EDIT: Haha. I’ve edited this entry for too many times. I guess still give a
dozen fucks. But I’m stopping now. Not gonna update this post anymore!